V07 release blog post (#734)
grouparoo/www.grouparoo.com: pages/blog/v07-release.mdx

---
title: "Grouparoo v0.7 release"
date: "2021-10-24"
author: "Brian Leonard"
pullQuote: "Grouparoo's v0.7 release brings Models and better handling of invalid data."
image: "v07-release/video.jpg"
tags: [product, engineering]
---

> The 0.7 release of Grouparoo is a huge step forward for data engineers that want to use Grouparoo to reliably sync a variety of types of data to operational tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 0.7 release of Grouparoo is a huge step forward for data engineers using Grouparoo to reliably sync a variety of types of data to operational tools.
```

Reviewer: more assertive/positive language!

Here are the key features of the release.

- Models enable Grouparoo to work with multiple data schemas at once.

> - Grouparoo helps troubleshoot and is more resistant to invalid data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Grouparoo helps troubleshoot messy data and is more resistant to data problems
```

- New Destination: Braze Users

> - DevOps Logging Plugins: AWS CloudWatch, Prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deployment Plugins: AWS CloudWatch Logging & Prometheus status endpoints
```

## Models

The primary addition is the concept of having multiple Models. Sources with Properties are added to a Model to define the shape of the Records that get created and synced to Destinations.

Here is how it works.

<p className="video-responsive">
  <iframe
    width="560"
    height="315"
    src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/9058fGPfFzE?rel=0"
    frameBorder="0"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
    allowFullScreen
  ></iframe>
</p>

Previously, Grouparoo had the notion of "profiles" that were meant to represent people. Each profile mapped to a person in the system. This made sense because the most common kind of data that needed to be synced was that of customers, users, leads, contacts, and more. As developers have been using this setup, we have received feedback on how to iterate on the design.

> First, we heard that not all "profiles" were the same. Doctors are different than patients. Leads are different than active users of the product. Therefore, the Record Properties of these different use cases should be different and be synced to different Destinations. This is now possible in the 0.7 release. You can create multiple Models that each have their own set of Sources, Properties, Groups, and Destinations.

Reviewer: "Doctors" is a niche use case... maybe start with leads vs users.  Buyers vs Sellers?

> We have also had many requests to sync Records that do not match the "profile" concept at all. We've heard about companies, accounts, events, locations, products, and a wide variety of custom schemas. In this release, you can create Models to represent anything and now we just have to create Destination plugins for the new data types.

Reviewer: > now we just have to create Destination plugins for the new data types.

> In future releases of Grouparoo, we will be enhancing our plugins to sync over these additional types of models
